# RSS Feed Model

RSS feeds can be automatically generated by Hero based on a set of author filters, topic filters, and a content type.  This model allows you to create, update, delete, and retrieve RSS feeds being generated automatically by Hero.  It also includes methods used by the RSS controller to display a feed.

## Initialization

```
$this->load->model('rss/rss_model');
// methods available at $this->rss_model->x();
```

## Method Reference

[method]int new_feed (int $content_type_id , string $title , string $url_path , string $description [, array $filter_author = array() [, array $filter_topic = array() [, string $summary_field = FALSE [, string $sort_field = '' [, string $sort_dir = '' [, string $template = 'rss_feed.txml']]]]]])[/method]

Create a new feed/archive listing with these parameters.

[method]void update_feed (int $feed_id , int $content_type_id , string $title , string $url_path , string $description [, array $filter_author = array() [, array $filter_topic = array() [, string $summary_field = FALSE [, string $sort_field = '' [, string $sort_dir = '' [, string $template = 'rss_feed.txml']]]]]])[/method]

Update an existing feed/archive with these parameters.  Specify the feed with `$feed_id`.

[method]boolean delete_feed (int $feed_id)[/method]

Delete an existing feed.

[method]int get_feed_id (string $url_path)[/method]

Return the ID of a feed based on its URL path (used in the feeds controller).

[method]array get_feed_content (int $feed_id [, int $page = 0])[/method]

Retrieve all content (via `content_model->get_contents()`) for a feed.

[method]array get_feed (int $feed_id)[/method]

Retrieve details about a single feed by ID.

[method]array get_feeds ( [array $filters = array()])[/method]

Retrieve details about a feed or feed based on optional filters.

Possible Filters: 

* int *id*
* int *type*
* string *title*

Each feed will be returned as an array with the following data:

* *id*
* *link_id* - Corresponds to the [link model](/docs/developers/reference/link_model)
* *title*
* *description*
* *filter_authors* - An array of authors to include in the feed.
* *filter_topics* - An array of included topics.
* *type* - The `content_type_id` for the content shown in this feed.
* *type_name* - The name of that content type.
* *summary_field* - The field name of the summary field for content retrieved.
* *url* - Full URL to feed
* *url_path* - URL path to feed
* *template* - The template used to display this feed.
* *sort_field*
* *sort_dir*

```
// get all feeds that show content_type_id #4 (e.g., Articles)
$feeds = $this->feed_model->get_feeds(array('type' => 4));
```